[Term Entry] Php Math Function: hexdec() (#2708)
Codecademy/docs: content/php/concepts/math-functions/terms/hexdec/hexdec.md

---
Title: 'hexdec()'
Description: 'Returns the decimal equivalent of a given hexadecimal string.'
Subjects:
- 'Computer Science'
- 'Web Development'
Tags:
- 'Arithmetic'
- 'Encoding'
- 'Functions'
- 'Math'
CatalogContent:
- 'learn-php'
- 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`hexdec()`** function returns the decimal equivalent of a given hexadecimal string. `hexdec()` ignores any non-hexadecimal characters,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`hexdec()`** function returns the decimal equivalent of a given hexadecimal string. It ignores any non-hexadecimal characters, computing the result as if they did not exist.
```

Author: @caupolicandiaz I have implemented this change in the most recent commit.

> computing the result as if they did not exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: @caupolicandiaz I have implemented this change in the most recent commit.

> `hexdec()` returns a value of type `int` if the converted number fits into the platform's `int` type; otherwise, a `float` is returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function returns a value of type `int` if the converted number fits into the platform's `int` type; otherwise, a `float` is returned.
```

Author: @caupolicandiaz I have implemented this change in the most recent commit.

## Syntax

```pseudo
$decimal = hexdec(hexString);
```

Where `hexString` is the hexadecimal string that is to be converted into a decimal.

## Example

This example converts the hexadecimal string `"CDECADE"` into its decimal equivalent.

> ```php
> $decimal = hexdec("CDECADE");
> echo $decimal;
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```php
<?php
  $decimal = hexdec("CDECADE");
  echo $decimal;
?>
```
```

Author: @caupolicandiaz I have implemented this change in the most recent commit.

This example results in the following output:

```shell
215927518
```

## Codebyte Example

> Using `hexdec()` to return the value of both a well-formed hexadecimal string and its malformed equivalent (non-hexadecimal characters ignored)`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example returns the value of both a well-formed hexadecimal string and its malformed equivalent (non-hexadecimal characters ignored):
```

Author: @caupolicandiaz I have implemented this change in the most recent commit.
